pdf-generator/README.md, before:

# Card Generator (PDF & PNG)

**Part 2 of DiffusionID Project**

Generates 3" x 7" portrait cards (PDF or PNG) with person images, names, QR codes, and custom messages. Features intelligent text wrapping, conditional layouts, and fully configurable dimensions.

## Installation

```bash
# Create virtual environment (recommended)
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Configuration

Edit `config.json` to customize all aspects of the PDF layout. All dimensions are in **PostScript points** (1 inch = 72 points).

### Key Configuration Options

**Page & Layout:**
- `page_width_pt`, `page_height_pt`: Page dimensions (default: 216 × 504 pt = 3" × 7")
- `horizontal_padding_pt`: Left/right page margins
- `top_margin_pt`: Top margin before photo section

**Section Heights:**
- `photo_section_height_pt`: Photo area height (default: 320pt)
- `name_box_height_pt_short`: Name box height for short names (≤ threshold)
- `name_box_height_pt_long`: Name box height for long names (> threshold)
- `qr_section_height_pt`: QR code section height
- `message_box_height_pt`: Message section height

**Conditional Name Handling:**
- `name_length_threshold`: Character count to trigger multiline layout (default: 26)
- `name_font_size_pt_short`: Font size for short names
- `name_font_size_pt_long`: Font size for long names (multiline)
- `name_max_lines`: Maximum lines for long names (default: 2)

**Borders & Styling:**
- `name_box_border_sides`: Array of sides to draw borders (e.g., `["left", "right", "top", "bottom"]`)
- `qr_section_border_sides`, `message_box_border_sides`: Border configuration per section
- Border width and color configurable per section

**Spacing:**
- `name_box_horizontal_margin_pt`: Margin outside name box (default: 25pt each side)
- `text_horizontal_padding_pt`: Internal text padding
- `gap_before_message_pt`: Gap between QR and message sections

**Content:**
- `input_csv`: Path to CSV file with person data
- `qr_code_path`: Path to QR code image
- `message_text`: Custom message (supports `<br/>` for line breaks)
- `background_color`: Background color (hex, e.g., `#8DC5FE`)

## Usage

### PDF Generation

```bash
# Use default config.json
python generate_cards.py

# Use custom config file
python generate_cards.py my_config.json
```

### PNG Generation

```bash
# Use default config.json (generates high-res PNGs at 4x scale = 288 DPI)
python generate_png_cards.py

# Use custom config file
python generate_png_cards.py my_config.json
```

**Note:** PNG generation uses the same `config.json` configuration as PDF generation. The PNG output is rendered at 4x resolution (288 DPI equivalent) for high-quality print output.

### PNG to PDF Conversion

Convert PNG images to PDF with configurable padding and background color:

```bash
# Convert single PNG file
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png

# Convert single PNG with custom output path
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png -o output.pdf

# Convert all PNGs in a directory
python convert_png_to_pdf.py -d output/

# Use custom config
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png -c my_config.json
```

**Configuration options** (in `png_to_pdf_config.json`):
- `page_width_pt`, `page_height_pt`: Output PDF dimensions (default: 216pt × 504pt)
- `top_padding_pt`, `bottom_padding_pt`, `left_padding_pt`, `right_padding_pt`: Padding around image
- `background_color`: Background color in hex format (default: `#8DC5FE`). Set to empty string for white
- `center_image`: Center image on page (default: `true`)
- `fit_to_page`: Scale image to fit within available space (default: `true`)

**Use case:** This is useful when you generate PNGs and want to convert them to PDFs with the same frame size, or when you need to add padding/background to existing PNG images.

## Input CSV Format

```csv
name,image
RUPALI CHANDANE,input-sample/images/person1.png
Dr Pravin Jadhav,input-sample/images/person2.png
"SARENA MOHAN VARGHESE,MBBS,DCH,DNB",input-sample/images/person3.png
```

**Note:** Names with commas should be quoted. The generator intelligently breaks long names into multiple lines at word/comma boundaries.

## Image Requirements

**Recommended photo dimensions:**
- **Minimum:** 900 × 1333 pixels (300 DPI)
- **Recommended:** 1200 × 1778 pixels (400 DPI)
- **Best:** 1800 × 2667 pixels (600 DPI)
- **Aspect ratio:** ~0.67:1 (portrait)

Images are automatically scaled and centered to fit the photo section while maintaining aspect ratio.

## Features

### Intelligent Text Handling
- **Conditional layout:** Automatically switches to multiline layout for names exceeding threshold
- **Optimal line breaking:** Breaks text at word/comma boundaries closest to threshold
- **Auto-scaling:** Font size reduces if text still doesn't fit

### Flexible Borders
- Configure borders independently for each section (name, QR, message)
- Choose which sides to draw (top, bottom, left, right)
- Customizable width and color per section

### Print-Ready Output
- 300 DPI equivalent quality (216pt × 504pt = 3" × 7" at 72 DPI base)
- Precise point-based positioning
- Professional PDF generation with ReportLab

## Output

Files are saved to the output directory with sanitized filenames:

**PDF output:**
- `rupali_chandane_card.pdf`
- `dr_pravin_jadhav_card.pdf`
- `sarena_mohan_varghese_mbbs_dch_dnb_card.pdf`

**PNG output:**
- `rupali_chandane_card.png` (864 × 2016 pixels at 288 DPI)
- `dr_pravin_jadhav_card.png`
- `sarena_mohan_varghese_mbbs_dch_dnb_card.png`

**PNG-to-PDF converted output:**
- `rupali_chandane_pdf.pdf` (converted from PNG with configurable background/padding)

**Sample outputs** are available in the `samples/` directory for reference.

## Example Configuration

See `config.json` for a complete example with comments explaining each parameter.

Commit message:

Add transparent background support for PNG generation
- Update generate_png_cards.py to support transparent backgrounds
- Set background_color to "transparent" in config.json to enable
- Generate PNGs in RGBA mode with alpha channel when transparent
- Add config comment documenting transparent option
- Add sample transparent PNG to samples directory
- Update README with transparent background documentation

Use case: Generate cards with transparent backgrounds for overlay
on different backgrounds or for further image processing workflows.

pdf-generator/README.md, after:

# Card Generator (PDF & PNG)

**Part 2 of DiffusionID Project**

Generates 3" x 7" portrait cards (PDF or PNG) with person images, names, QR codes, and custom messages. Features intelligent text wrapping, conditional layouts, and fully configurable dimensions.

## Installation

```bash
# Create virtual environment (recommended)
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Configuration

Edit `config.json` to customize all aspects of the PDF layout. All dimensions are in **PostScript points** (1 inch = 72 points).

### Key Configuration Options

**Page & Layout:**
- `page_width_pt`, `page_height_pt`: Page dimensions (default: 216 × 504 pt = 3" × 7")
- `horizontal_padding_pt`: Left/right page margins
- `top_margin_pt`: Top margin before photo section

**Section Heights:**
- `photo_section_height_pt`: Photo area height (default: 320pt)
- `name_box_height_pt_short`: Name box height for short names (≤ threshold)
- `name_box_height_pt_long`: Name box height for long names (> threshold)
- `qr_section_height_pt`: QR code section height
- `message_box_height_pt`: Message section height

**Conditional Name Handling:**
- `name_length_threshold`: Character count to trigger multiline layout (default: 26)
- `name_font_size_pt_short`: Font size for short names
- `name_font_size_pt_long`: Font size for long names (multiline)
- `name_max_lines`: Maximum lines for long names (default: 2)

**Borders & Styling:**
- `name_box_border_sides`: Array of sides to draw borders (e.g., `["left", "right", "top", "bottom"]`)
- `qr_section_border_sides`, `message_box_border_sides`: Border configuration per section
- Border width and color configurable per section

**Spacing:**
- `name_box_horizontal_margin_pt`: Margin outside name box (default: 25pt each side)
- `text_horizontal_padding_pt`: Internal text padding
- `gap_before_message_pt`: Gap between QR and message sections

**Content:**
- `input_csv`: Path to CSV file with person data
- `qr_code_path`: Path to QR code image
- `message_text`: Custom message (supports `<br/>` for line breaks)
- `background_color`: Background color (hex, e.g., `#8DC5FE`) or `"transparent"` for PNG with transparent background

## Usage

### PDF Generation

```bash
# Use default config.json
python generate_cards.py

# Use custom config file
python generate_cards.py my_config.json
```

### PNG Generation

```bash
# Use default config.json (generates high-res PNGs at 4x scale = 288 DPI)
python generate_png_cards.py

# Use custom config file
python generate_png_cards.py my_config.json
```

**Note:** PNG generation uses the same `config.json` configuration as PDF generation. The PNG output is rendered at 4x resolution (288 DPI equivalent) for high-quality print output.

**Transparent Background:** To generate PNGs with transparent background instead of colored background, set `background_color` to `"transparent"` in `config.json`. This is useful when you want to overlay the cards on different backgrounds or for further image processing.

### PNG to PDF Conversion

Convert PNG images to PDF with configurable padding and background color:

```bash
# Convert single PNG file
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png

# Convert single PNG with custom output path
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png -o output.pdf

# Convert all PNGs in a directory
python convert_png_to_pdf.py -d output/

# Use custom config
python convert_png_to_pdf.py image.png -c my_config.json
```

**Configuration options** (in `png_to_pdf_config.json`):
- `page_width_pt`, `page_height_pt`: Output PDF dimensions (default: 216pt × 504pt)
- `top_padding_pt`, `bottom_padding_pt`, `left_padding_pt`, `right_padding_pt`: Padding around image
- `background_color`: Background color in hex format (default: `#8DC5FE`). Set to empty string for white
- `center_image`: Center image on page (default: `true`)
- `fit_to_page`: Scale image to fit within available space (default: `true`)

**Use case:** This is useful when you generate PNGs and want to convert them to PDFs with the same frame size, or when you need to add padding/background to existing PNG images.

## Input CSV Format

```csv
name,image
RUPALI CHANDANE,input-sample/images/person1.png
Dr Pravin Jadhav,input-sample/images/person2.png
"SARENA MOHAN VARGHESE,MBBS,DCH,DNB",input-sample/images/person3.png
```

**Note:** Names with commas should be quoted. The generator intelligently breaks long names into multiple lines at word/comma boundaries.

## Image Requirements

**Recommended photo dimensions:**
- **Minimum:** 900 × 1333 pixels (300 DPI)
- **Recommended:** 1200 × 1778 pixels (400 DPI)
- **Best:** 1800 × 2667 pixels (600 DPI)
- **Aspect ratio:** ~0.67:1 (portrait)

Images are automatically scaled and centered to fit the photo section while maintaining aspect ratio.

## Features

### Intelligent Text Handling
- **Conditional layout:** Automatically switches to multiline layout for names exceeding threshold
- **Optimal line breaking:** Breaks text at word/comma boundaries closest to threshold
- **Auto-scaling:** Font size reduces if text still doesn't fit

### Flexible Borders
- Configure borders independently for each section (name, QR, message)
- Choose which sides to draw (top, bottom, left, right)
- Customizable width and color per section

### Print-Ready Output
- 300 DPI equivalent quality (216pt × 504pt = 3" × 7" at 72 DPI base)
- Precise point-based positioning
- Professional PDF generation with ReportLab

## Output

Files are saved to the output directory with sanitized filenames:

**PDF output:**
- `rupali_chandane_card.pdf`
- `dr_pravin_jadhav_card.pdf`
- `sarena_mohan_varghese_mbbs_dch_dnb_card.pdf`

**PNG output:**
- `rupali_chandane_card.png` (864 × 2016 pixels at 288 DPI)
- `dr_pravin_jadhav_card.png`
- `sarena_mohan_varghese_mbbs_dch_dnb_card.png`

**PNG-to-PDF converted output:**
- `rupali_chandane_pdf.pdf` (converted from PNG with configurable background/padding)

**Sample outputs** are available in the `samples/` directory for reference:
- `rupali_chandane.png` - PNG with colored background
- `rupali_chandane_transparent.png` - PNG with transparent background (RGBA)
- `sample_direct_pdf.pdf` - PDF generated directly from card generator
- `sample_converted_pdf.pdf` - PDF converted from PNG

## Example Configuration

See `config.json` for a complete example with comments explaining each parameter.
